Update Troubleshooting guide (#2141)
nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric: site/content/how-to/monitoring/troubleshooting.md

{{< custom-styles >}}

> This topic describes general troubleshooting techniques when users run into problems using NGINX Gateway Fabric. When possible, suggested workarounds are provided.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This topic describes possible issues when using NGINX Gateway Fabric and general troubleshooting techniques. When possible, suggested workarounds are provided.
```

> This topic describes possible issues users might encounter when using NGINX Gateway Fabric. When possible, suggested workarounds are provided.

Reviewer: This doc also contains general troubleshooting techniques. Let's update this description to include that.

This topic describes possible issues users might encounter when using NGINX Gateway Fabric. When possible, suggested workarounds are provided.

### Common Issues

{{< bootstrap-table "table table-striped table-bordered" >}}
| Problem Area                 | Symptom                                | Troubleshooting Method                                | Common Cause                                           |
|------------------------------|----------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------ |--------------------------------------------------------|

> | Startup                      | NGINX Gateway Fabric fails to start.   | Check logs for _nginx_ and _nginx-gateway_ container. | Missing default server TLS secret.                     |

Reviewer: We don't have a default server TLS secret. I think that's the common cause for NIC, not for NGF.

> | Startup                      | NGINX Gateway Fabric fails to start.   | Check logs for _nginx_ and _nginx-gateway_ container. | Missing default server TLS secret.                     |

Reviewer 2: That's probably fine for now

| Resources not configured     | Status missing on resources.           | Check referenced resources.                           | Referenced resources not belong to Gateway Fabric.     |

> | NGINX errors                 | Reload failures on NGINX               | Fix permissions for control plane                     | Security context not configured.                       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| NGINX errors                 | Reload failures on NGINX               | Check logs for _nginx_ container                   | nginx container does not have the proper permissions.                 |
```

Maybe we even add a link to the known issue for this

> | Usage reporting              | Errors logs related to usage reporting | Enable usage reporting                                | Usage reporting disabled.                              |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Usage reporting              | Errors logs related to usage reporting | Enable usage reporting                                | Usage reporting disabled.                              |
```

Let's add a link to the guide on how to enable usage reporting here.

If a resource has errors relating to its configuration or relationship to other resources, they can likely be read in the status. The `ObservedGeneration` in the status should match the `ObservedGeneration` of the resource. Otherwise, this could mean that the resource hasn't been processed yet or that the status failed to update.

> If no `Status` is written on the resource, further debug by checking if the referenced resources exists and belong to NGINX Gateway Fabric.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If no `Status` is written on the resource, further debug by checking if the referenced resources exist and belong to NGINX Gateway Fabric.
```

5s          Warning   ResourceDeleted     nginxgateway/ngf-config                          NginxGateway configuration was deleted; using defaults
```

> ##### Get shell access to containers

Reviewer: Since this only applies to the NGINX container, let's rename this to 
```suggestion
##### Get shell access to NGINX container
```

Getting shell access to containers allows developers and operators to view the environment of a running container, see its logs or diagnose any problems. To get shell access to the NGINX container, use `kubectl exec`:

```shell
kubectl exec -it [-n namespace] <ngf-pod-name> -c nginx /bin/sh
```

##### Logs

Logs from the NGINX Gateway Fabric control plane and data plane can contain information that isn't available to status or events. These can include errors in processing or passing traffic.

> 1. To see logs for the control plane container:

Reviewer: Is this `1.` needed? There isn't a `2.` that follows

Author: I was following the ordered number list connotation as used in our other docs, but have updated it to 
1. Logs levels
2. errors logs
3. access logs

Author: was running into lint errors due to `1. , 2. 3.` numbered style 

```
site/content/how-to/monitoring/troubleshooting.md:108:1 MD029/ol-prefix Ordered list item prefix [Expected: 1; Actual: 2; Style: 1/1/1]
site/content/how-to/monitoring/troubleshooting.md:137:1 MD029/ol-prefix Ordered list item prefix [Expected: 1; Actual: 3; Style: 1/1/1]
```

Reviewer: My bad, I didn't realize there were multiple items in the list. I thought the list contained just one item. All `1s` is fine

```shell
kubectl [-n namespace] logs <ngf-pod-name> -c nginx-gateway
```

To see logs for the data plane container:

```shell
kubectl [-n namespace] logs <ngf-pod-name> -c nginx
```

1. To only see error logs for control plane and data plane containers:

> For _nginx-gateway_ container, you can `grep` for the word `error` or change the log level to `error` by following steps in [Modify logging levels](#modify-logging-levels).

Reviewer: Let's mention debug logs somewhere in this section.

```

For _nginx_ container:

```shell

> kubectl [-n namespace] logs <ngf-pod-name> -c nginx-gateway | grep emerg

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl [-n namespace] logs <ngf-pod-name> -c nginx | grep emerg
```

Reviewer: Let's make a note of all the error log levels a user can search for: https://nginx.org/en/docs/ngx_core_module.html#error_log.

They are all logged in brackets, e.g.  `[error]`

```

For example, if a variable is too long, NGINX may display such an error message:

```text
kubectl logs -n nginx-gateway ngf-nginx-gateway-fabric-bb8598998-jwk2m -c nginx | grep emerg
2024/06/13 20:04:17 [emerg] 27#27: too long parameter, probably missing terminating """ character in /etc/nginx/conf.d/http.conf:78
```

1. NGINX access logs are files that record all requests processed by the NGINX server. These logs provide detailed information about each request, which can be useful for troubleshooting, and analyzing web traffic.

> To view the access logs, get shell access to your NGINX container using the [steps](#get-shell-access-to-containers). The access logs are located in the file `/var/log/nginx/access.log` in the NGINX container.

Reviewer: Access logs are stream to stdout, so the user can view them using `kubectl logs`.

### NGINX fails to reload

#### Description

NGINX reload errors can occur for various reasons, including syntax errors in configuration files, permission issues, and more. To determine if NGINX has failed to reload, check logs for your _nginx-gateway_ and _nginx_ containers.
You will see the following error in the _nginx-gateway_  logs `failed to reload NGINX:` followed by the reason for the failure. Similarly, error logs in _nginx_ container start with `emerg`. For example, `2024/06/12 14:25:11 [emerg] 12345#0: open() "/var/run/nginx.pid" failed (13: Permission denied)` shows a critical error, such as a permission problem preventing NGINX from accessing necessary files.

To debug why your reload has failed, start with verifying the syntax of your configuration files by opening a shell in the NGINX container following these [steps](#get-shell-access-to-containers) and running `nginx -T`. If there are errors in your configuration file, the reload will fail and specify why it has failed.

> ### Understanding the generated config

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Understanding the generated NGINX config
```

> Understanding the NGINX configuration is key for fixing issues because it shows how NGINX handles requests. This helps tweak settings to make sure NGINX behaves the way you want it to for your application. The configuration file is found at /etc/nginx/nginx.conf within your NGINX container. To understand the usage of NGINX directives in the configuration file, consult this list of [NGINX directives](https://nginx.org/en/docs/dirindex.html).

Reviewer: We write multiple conf files. The base conf file is at `/etc/nginx/nginx.conf`, but we also write the `http.conf` file to `/etc/nginx/conf.d`. We are likely to add/change the location of the additional conf files, so I don't recommend outlining them all here. Instead, let's just explain how to run `nginx -T` to get the full configuration.

In this section, we will see how the `nginx.conf` gets updated as we configure different services, deployments and routes with NGINX Gateway Fabric. In the configuration file, you'll often find several server blocks, each assigned to specific ports and server names. NGINX selects the appropriate server for a request and evaluates the URI against the location directives within that block. In cases, where no resources are defined, NGINX Gateway Fabric generates a basic configuration with a default server listening on port 80 for all requests and additional blocks to manage errors with status codes 500 or 502.

> This is a default `server` block listening on port 80:

Reviewer: I would note that this default server is only created when there is a Gateway resource. NGINX will not listen on any port until a Gateway is created. Furthermore, the port in the default server will match the ports in the Gateway listeners. It won't always be 80.

```text
server {
    listen 80 default_server;

    default_type text/html;
    return 404;
}
```

> Once routes with path matches and rules are defined, the nginx.conf is updated accordingly to determine which location block will manage incoming requests. To demonstrate how `nginx.conf` is changed, lets create some resources:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once routes with path matches and rules are defined, the nginx.conf is updated accordingly to determine which location block will manage incoming requests. To demonstrate how `nginx.conf` is changed, let's create some resources:
```

> 1. A Gateway with single listener on port 80. The hostname specified is `*.example.com`, so all incoming requests matching that wildcard is accepted by this Gateway.

Reviewer: This is all great work @salonichf5, but I wonder if we should be getting into this much detail. We will very likely be changing the configuration of these server blocks in the future, and I fear this information will get out of date easily. 

Is it enough to show the user how to get the nginx config? Are all these details necessary @mpstefan @pleshakov @sjberman 

If we do keep the details, I suggest adding a warning that the configuration may change in future releases.

Author: I can update it with a warning.

Reviewer: @pleshakov @sjberman do you guys have any thoughts on this?

Reviewer 3: Tough... this specific details are really good at showcasing what's going on. I'd add a label for what version you used for the example.

Reviewer 2: Yeah I'm torn. It's good info but also getting close to being a tutorial...it's probably fine with the warning.

5s          Warning   ResourceDeleted     nginxgateway/ngf-config                          NginxGateway configuration was deleted; using defaults
```

##### Get shell access to containers

Getting shell access to containers allows developers and operators to view the environment of a running container, see its logs or diagnose any problems. To get shell access to the NGINX container, use `kubectl exec`:

```shell
kubectl exec -it [-n namespace] <ngf-pod-name> -c nginx /bin/sh
```

##### Logs

Logs from the NGINX Gateway Fabric control plane and data plane can contain information that isn't available to status or events. These can include errors in processing or passing traffic.

1. To see logs for the control plane container:

```shell

> kubectl [-n namespace] logs <ngf-pod-name> -c nginx-gateway

Author: i feel this makes it clearer on what field is being used here as people can use other namespaces and provides more clarity in the command

> kubectl [-n namespace] logs <ngf-pod-name> -c nginx-gateway

Reviewer 2: All of our other docs assume `nginx-gateway` as the namespace for NGF, and a user may not even know this namespace if they just copy/pasted the installation command.

I think it's fine when viewing their own resources, but I don't see harm in providing it when looking at NGF-specific stuff.

```text
kubectl logs -n nginx-gateway ngf-nginx-gateway-fabric-bb8598998-jwk2m -c nginx | grep emerg
2024/06/13 20:04:17 [emerg] 27#27: too long parameter, probably missing terminating """ character in /etc/nginx/conf.d/http.conf:78
```

1. NGINX access logs are files that record all requests processed by the NGINX server. These logs provide detailed information about each request, which can be useful for troubleshooting, and analyzing web traffic.
To view the access logs, get shell access to your NGINX container using the [steps](#get-shell-access-to-containers). The access logs are located in the file `/var/log/nginx/access.log` in the NGINX container.

You can see logs for a crashed or killed container by adding the `-p` flag to the above commands.

##### If NGINX Gateway Fabric Pod is not running or ready

To understand why NGINX Gateway Fabric Pod has not started running or is not ready, first step is to check the state of the pod to get a detailed information about the current status and events happening in the pod. To do this, use `kubectl describe`:

```shell
kubectl describe pod <ngf-pod-name> [-n namespace]
```

> The pod description includes details about the image name, tags, current status, and environment variables. Please verify that these details match your setup and cross-check with the events to ensure everything is functioning as expected. For example, the pod below has two containers that are running and the events reflect the same.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Pod description includes details about the image name, tags, current status, and environment variables. Please verify that these details match your setup and cross-check with the events to ensure everything is functioning as expected. For example, the Pod below has two containers that are running and the events reflect the same.
```

```text
Containers:
  nginx-gateway:
    Container ID:  containerd://06c97a9de938b35049b7c63e251418395aef65dd1ff996119362212708b79cab

>     Image:         nginx-gateway-fabric:sa.choudhary

Reviewer 2: Don't include your username in the tag here

    Image ID:      docker.io/library/import-2024-06-13@sha256:1460d63bd8a352a6e455884d7ebf51ce9c92c512cb43b13e44a1c3e3e6a08918
    Ports:         9113/TCP, 8081/TCP
    Host Ports:    0/TCP, 0/TCP
    State:          Running
      Started:      Thu, 13 Jun 2024 11:47:46 -0600
    Ready:          True
    Restart Count:  0
    Readiness:      http-get http://:health/readyz delay=3s timeout=1s period=1s #success=1 #failure=3
    Environment:
      POD_IP:          (v1:status.podIP)
      POD_NAMESPACE:  nginx-gateway (v1:metadata.namespace)
      POD_NAME:       ngf-nginx-gateway-fabric-66dd665756-zh7d7 (v1:metadata.name)
  nginx:
    Container ID:   containerd://c2f3684fd8922e4fac7d5707ab4eb5f49b1f76a48893852c9a812cd6dbaa2f55

>     Image:          nginx-gateway-fabric/nginx:sa.choudhary

Reviewer 2: Ditto

    Image ID:       docker.io/library/import-2024-06-13@sha256:c9a02cb5665c6218373f8f65fc2c730f018d0ca652ae827cc913a7c6e9db6f45
    Ports:          80/TCP, 443/TCP
    Host Ports:     0/TCP, 0/TCP
    State:          Running
      Started:      Thu, 13 Jun 2024 11:47:46 -0600
    Ready:          True
    Restart Count:  0
    Environment:    <none>
Events:
  Type    Reason     Age   From               Message
  ----    ------     ----  ----               -------
  Normal  Scheduled  40s   default-scheduler  Successfully assigned nginx-gateway/ngf-nginx-gateway-fabric-66dd665756-zh7d7 to kind-control-plane
  Normal  Pulled     40s   kubelet            Container image "nginx-gateway-fabric:sa.choudhary" already present on machine
  Normal  Created    40s   kubelet            Created container nginx-gateway
  Normal  Started    39s   kubelet            Started container nginx-gateway
  Normal  Pulled     39s   kubelet            Container image "nginx-gateway-fabric/nginx:sa.choudhary" already present on machine
  Normal  Created    39s   kubelet            Created container nginx
  Normal  Started    39s   kubelet            Started container nginx
```

> ### Modify logging levels

Reviewer 2: We can probably just link to the control plane configuration doc, no need to repeat information here.

#### Modify log levels after deploying

Once you have deployed NGINX Gateway Fabric, you can modify log levels by editing the config for NGINX Gateway as shown below:

```shell
kubectl [-n namespace] edit nginxgateways ngf-config
```

```yaml
apiVersion: gateway.nginx.org/v1alpha1
kind: NginxGateway
metadata:
  annotations:
    meta.helm.sh/release-name: ngf
    meta.helm.sh/release-namespace: nginx-gateway
  creationTimestamp: "2024-06-12T18:35:05Z"
  generation: 1
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/instance: ngf
    app.kubernetes.io/managed-by: Helm
    app.kubernetes.io/name: nginx-gateway-fabric
    app.kubernetes.io/version: edge
    helm.sh/chart: nginx-gateway-fabric-1.3.0
  name: ngf-config
  namespace: nginx-gateway
  resourceVersion: "62293"
  uid: fa6d6a12-14e1-4168-95d5-595e7f63b270
spec:
  logging:
    level: debug
```

### NGINX fails to reload

#### Description

NGINX reload errors can occur for various reasons, including syntax errors in configuration files, permission issues, and more. To determine if NGINX has failed to reload, check logs for your _nginx-gateway_ and _nginx_ containers.

> You will see the following error in the _nginx-gateway_  logs `failed to reload NGINX:` followed by the reason for the failure. Similarly, you will see error logs in the _nginx_ container as `2024/06/12 14:25:11 [emerg] 12345#0: open() "/var/run/nginx.pid" failed (13: Permission denied)`.

Reviewer 2: This isn't necessarily always the error for nginx failing to reload

To debug why your reload has failed, start with verifying the syntax of your configuration files by opening a shell in the NGINX container following these [steps](#get-shell-access-to-containers) and running `nginx -T`. If there are errors in your configuration file, the reload will fail and specify why it has failed.

### Understanding the generated config

> Understanding the NGINX configuration is key for fixing issues because it shows how NGINX handles requests. This helps tweak settings to make sure NGINX behaves the way you want it to for your application. The configuration file is found at /etc/nginx/nginx.conf within your NGINX Container. To understand the usage of NGINX Directives in the configuration file, consult this list of [NGINX Directives](https://nginx.org/en/docs/dirindex.html).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Understanding the NGINX configuration is key for fixing issues because it shows how NGINX handles requests. This helps tweak settings to make sure NGINX behaves the way you want it to for your application. The configuration file is found at /etc/nginx/nginx.conf within your NGINX container. To understand the usage of NGINX directives in the configuration file, consult this list of [NGINX directives](https://nginx.org/en/docs/dirindex.html).
```

```

Matches location / block

```shell
curl --resolve cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT:$GW_IP http://cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT/
Handling connection for 8080
<html>
<head><title>404 Not Found</title></head>
<body>
<center><h1>404 Not Found</h1></center>
<hr><center>nginx/1.25.4</center>
</body>
```

#### Metrics for Troubleshooting

Metrics can be useful to identify performance bottlenecks and pinpoint areas of high resource consumption within NGINX Gateway Fabric. To setup metrics collection, refer to this [guide]({{< relref "prometheus.md" >}}). The metrics dashboard will help you understand problems with the way NGINX Gateway Fabric is setup or potential issues that could show up with time.

For example, metrics `nginx_reloads_total` and `nginx_reload_errors_total` offer valuable insights into the system's stability and reliability. A high `nginx_reloads_total` value indicates frequent updates or configuration changes, while a high `nginx_reload_errors_total` value suggests issues with the configuration or other problems preventing successful reloads. Monitoring these metrics helps identify and resolve configuration errors, ensuring consistent service reliability.

> In such situations, it's advisable to review the logs of both NGINX and NGINX Gateway containers for any potential error messages. Additionally, verify the configured resources to ensure they are in a valid state.

Author: Looking to add more context and debugging tips, open to suggestions.

5s          Warning   ResourceDeleted     nginxgateway/ngf-config                          NginxGateway configuration was deleted; using defaults
```

#### Get shell access to NGINX container

Getting shell access to containers allows developers and operators to view the environment of a running container, see its logs or diagnose any problems. To get shell access to the NGINX container, use `kubectl exec`:

```shell
kubectl exec -it -n nginx-gateway  <ngf-pod-name> -c nginx /bin/sh
```

#### Logs

Logs from the NGINX Gateway Fabric control plane and data plane can contain information that isn't available to status or events. These can include errors in processing or passing traffic.

1. Container Logs

>     To see logs for Control plane container:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    To see logs for control plane container:
```

    ```shell
    kubectl -n nginx-gateway logs <ngf-pod-name> -c nginx-gateway
    ```

>     To see logs for Data plane container:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    To see logs for data plane container:
```

    ```shell
    kubectl -n nginx-gateway logs <ngf-pod-name> -c nginx
    ```

1. Error Logs

>     To see error logs for control plane and data plane containers:

Reviewer: I don't think this sentence is needed.

>     For _nginx-gateway_ container, you can `grep` for the word `error` or change the log level to `error` by following steps in Modify log levels (Section 3). Once you have modified log levels, you can `grep` for the word `debug` to check debug logs for further investigation.

Reviewer: Section 3? 

This part is a little confusing. If the user changes the log level to `error` as suggested, then they cannot search for `debug` log levels. Maybe we just simplify this to just describe how to grep for `error`.

Author: Saylor made a comment that we should write instructions to `grep` debug logs. A different section might be clearer

    ```

>     For _nginx_ container you can `grep` for various [error](https://nginx.org/en/docs/ngx_core_module.html#error_log) log levels. They are logged with the`[emerg]` tag:

Reviewer: This is still not quite right, I suggest:
```suggestion
    For _nginx_ container you can `grep` for various [error](https://nginx.org/en/docs/ngx_core_module.html#error_log) log levels. For example, to search for all logs logged at the `emerg` level:
```

    ```shell
    kubectl -n nginx-gateway logs <ngf-pod-name> -c nginx | grep emerg
    ```

    For example, if a variable is too long, NGINX may display such an error message:

    ```text
    kubectl logs -n nginx-gateway ngf-nginx-gateway-fabric-bb8598998-jwk2m -c nginx | grep emerg
    2024/06/13 20:04:17 [emerg] 27#27: too long parameter, probably missing terminating """ character in /etc/nginx/conf.d/http.conf:78
    ```

1. Access Logs

    NGINX access logs record all requests processed by the NGINX server. These logs provide detailed information about each request, which can be useful for troubleshooting and analyzing web traffic.
    Access logs can be viewed with the above method of using `kubectl logs`, or by viewing the access log file directly. To do that, get shell access to your NGINX container using these [steps](#get-shell-access-to-nginx-container). The access logs are located in the file `/var/log/nginx/access.log` in the NGINX container.

>     You can see logs for a crashed or killed container by adding the `-p` flag to the above commands.

Reviewer: Since this applies to all the logs and not just access logs, let's put this at the top of the section before the list.

In this section, we will see how the configuration gets updated as we configure different Services, Deployments and HTTPRoutes with NGINX Gateway Fabric. In the configuration file, you'll often find several server blocks, each assigned to specific ports and server names. NGINX selects the appropriate server for a request and evaluates the URI against the location directives within that block.
When only a Gateway resource is defined, but no Services or HTTPRoutes are configured, NGINX generates a basic configuration. This includes a default server listening on the ports specified in the Gateway listeners, handling all incoming requests. Additionally, there are blocks to manage errors with status codes 500 or 502.

This is a default `server` block listening on port 80:

```text
server {
    listen 80 default_server;

    default_type text/html;
    return 404;
}
```

Once a HTTPRoute with path matches and rules are defined, the nginx.conf is updated accordingly to determine which location block will manage incoming requests. To demonstrate how `nginx.conf` is changed, let's create some resources:

> 1. A Gateway with single listener on port 80. The hostname specified is `*.example.com`, so all incoming requests matching that wildcard is accepted by this Gateway.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. A Gateway with single listener with the hostname `*.example.com` on port 80. 
```

> 2. A simple `coffee` application with hostname `cafe.example.com` and referenced to the Gateway we created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. A simple `coffee` application.
```

> 3. A HTTPRoute to expose `coffee` application outside the cluster using the listener created in step 1. The path and rule matches create different location blocks in `nginx.conf` to redirect requests as needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. An HTTPRoute that exposes the `coffee` application outside the cluster using the listener created in step 1. The path and rule matches create different location blocks in `nginx.conf` to route requests as needed.
```

Now let's check the behaviour when curl request is sent to the `coffee` application:

Matches location /coffee/ block

```shell
curl --resolve cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT:$GW_IP http://cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT/coffee/hello
Handling connection for 8080
Server address: 10.244.0.13:8080
Server name: coffee-56b44d4c55-hwpkp
Date: 13/Jun/2024:22:51:52 +0000
URI: /coffee/hello
Request ID: 21fc2baad77337065e7cf2cd57e04383
```

Matches location = /coffee block

```shell
curl --resolve cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT:$GW_IP http://cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT/coffee
Handling connection for 8080
Server address: 10.244.0.13:8080
Server name: coffee-56b44d4c55-hwpkp
Date: 13/Jun/2024:22:51:40 +0000
URI: /coffee
Request ID: 4d8d719e95063303e290ad74ecd7339f
```

Matches location / block

```shell
curl --resolve cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT:$GW_IP http://cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT/
Handling connection for 8080
<html>
<head><title>404 Not Found</title></head>
<body>
<center><h1>404 Not Found</h1></center>
<hr><center>nginx/1.25.4</center>
</body>
```

{{< warning >}}
The configuration may change in future releases. This configuration is valid for version 1.3.
{{< /warning >}}

#### Metrics for Troubleshooting

> Metrics can be useful to identify performance bottlenecks and pinpoint areas of high resource consumption within NGINX Gateway Fabric. To setup metrics collection, refer to this [guide]({{< relref "prometheus.md" >}}). The metrics dashboard will help you understand problems with the way NGINX Gateway Fabric is setup or potential issues that could show up with time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Metrics can be useful to identify performance bottlenecks and pinpoint areas of high resource consumption within NGINX Gateway Fabric. To set up metrics collection, refer to this [guide]({{< relref "prometheus.md" >}}). The metrics dashboard will help you understand problems with the way NGINX Gateway Fabric is set up or potential issues that could show up with time.
```

| Resources not configured     | Status missing on resources.           | Check referenced resources.                                                                                         | Referenced resources do not belong to NGINX Gateway Fabric.                                                                             |
| NGINX errors                 | Reload failures on NGINX               | Fix permissions for control plane.                                                                                  | Security context not configured.                                                                                                        |
| Usage reporting              | Errors logs related to usage reporting | Enable usage reporting. Refer to [Usage Reporting]({{< relref "installation/usage-reporting.md" >}})                | Usage reporting disabled.                                                                                                               |

> | Client Settings              | Request entity too large error         | Adjust client settings. Refer to [Client Settings Policy]({{< relref "../traffic-management/client-settings.md" >}})   | Payload is greater than the set [`client_max_body_size`](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_core_module.html#client_max_body_size) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Client Settings              | Request entity too large error         | Adjust client settings. Refer to [Client Settings Policy]({{< relref "../traffic-management/client-settings.md" >}})   | Payload is greater than the [`client_max_body_size`](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_core_module.html#client_max_body_size) value.|
```

You will see the following error in the _nginx-gateway_  logs: `failed to reload NGINX:`, followed by the reason for the failure. Similarly, error logs in _nginx_ container start with `emerg`. For example, `2024/06/12 14:25:11 [emerg] 12345#0: open() "/var/run/nginx.pid" failed (13: Permission denied)` shows a critical error, such as a permission problem preventing NGINX from accessing necessary files.

To debug why your reload has failed, start with verifying the syntax of your configuration files by opening a shell in the NGINX container following these [steps](#get-shell-access-to-nginx-container) and running `nginx -T`. If there are errors in your configuration file, the reload will fail and specify the reason for it.

##### NGINX Gateway Fabric Pod is not running or ready

To understand why the NGINX Gateway Fabric Pod has not started running or is not ready, the first step is to check the state of the Pod to get detailed information about the current status and events happening in the Pod. To do this, use `kubectl describe`:

```shell
kubectl describe pod <ngf-pod-name> -n nginx-gateway
```

> The Pod description includes details about the image name, tags, current status, and environment variables. Verify that these details match your setup and cross-check with the events to ensure everything is functioning as expected. For example, the Pod below has two containers that are running and the events reflect the same.

Reviewer: In the first paragraph we say "the first step is to...", should we include more steps after this?

Author: I see what that can be confusing. Meant it more like `first thing to do` and then more details on how to understand the `description` of the resource or what it means. I will add some more information on there and change the language.

    Environment:    <none>
Events:
  Type    Reason     Age   From               Message
  ----    ------     ----  ----               -------
  Normal  Scheduled  40s   default-scheduler  Successfully assigned nginx-gateway/ngf-nginx-gateway-fabric-66dd665756-zh7d7 to kind-control-plane
  Normal  Pulled     40s   kubelet            Container image "nginx-gateway-fabric" already present on machine
  Normal  Created    40s   kubelet            Created container nginx-gateway
  Normal  Started    39s   kubelet            Started container nginx-gateway
  Normal  Pulled     39s   kubelet            Container image "nginx-gateway-fabric/nginx" already present on machine
  Normal  Created    39s   kubelet            Created container nginx
  Normal  Started    39s   kubelet            Started container nginx
```

##### Insufficient Privileges errors

Depending on your environment's configuration, the control plane may not have the proper permissions to reload NGINX. The NGINX configuration will not be applied and you will see the following error in the _nginx-gateway_ logs:

`failed to reload NGINX: failed to send the HUP signal to NGINX main: operation not permitted`

> #### Resolution

Reviewer: Why this change?

Author: moved all the `Common Issues` together

Reviewer: But why change the formatting for the resolution?

Author: Too many subheadings inside the heading. 

I structured it as 

```
#### Common Issue 

<The issue>

To **resolve** 
```

Looks cleaner in my opinion

5s          Warning   ResourceDeleted     nginxgateway/ngf-config                          NginxGateway configuration was deleted; using defaults
```

#### Get shell access to NGINX container

Getting shell access to containers allows developers and operators to view the environment of a running container, see its logs or diagnose any problems. To get shell access to the NGINX container, use `kubectl exec`:

```shell
kubectl exec -it -n nginx-gateway  <ngf-pod-name> -c nginx /bin/sh
```

#### Logs

> Logs from the NGINX Gateway Fabric control plane and data plane can contain information that isn't available to status or events. These can include errors in processing or passing traffic. You can see logs for a crashed or killed container by adding the `-p` flag to the above commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Logs from the NGINX Gateway Fabric control plane and data plane can contain information that isn't available to status or events. These can include errors in processing or passing traffic. 

{{< note >}}
You can see logs for a crashed or killed container by adding the `-p` flag to the `kubectl logs` commands below.
{{< /note >}}
```

{{< note >}}
You can see logs for a crashed or killed container by adding the `-p` flag to the `kubectl logs` commands below.
{{< /note >}}

1. Container Logs

>     To see logs for control plane container:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    To see logs for the control plane container:
```

    ```shell
    kubectl -n nginx-gateway logs <ngf-pod-name> -c nginx-gateway
    ```

>     To see logs for data plane container:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    To see logs for the data plane container:
```

1. Error Logs

>     For _nginx-gateway_ container, you can `grep` for the word `error` or change the log level to `error` by following steps in Modify log levels (Section 4).

Reviewer: I still think this is confusing. What if we just had:

```suggestion
    For _nginx-gateway_ container, you can `grep` the logs for the word `error`:
```

Then in the section on modify log levels, describe that you can change the log level to `error` to see only the error log messages from the control plane. The modify log level section can also include the instructions on greping for debug log messages.

Author: We do already have a section on error logs maybe we can say how to modify log levels and have a `note` on how to grep debug logs?

Reviewer: I'm just suggesting that you keep all the info related or dependent on modifying the log level in the modify log level section. IMO it's confusing when the steps depend/refer to one another.

Author: Okay, the dependency makes sense. I will put them all together.

1. Error Logs

>     For _nginx-gateway_ container, you can `grep` the logs for the word `error`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    For the _nginx-gateway_ container, you can `grep` the logs for the word `error`:
```

    ```

>     For _nginx_ container you can `grep` for various [error](https://nginx.org/en/docs/ngx_core_module.html#error_log) log levels. For example, to search for all logs logged at the `emerg` level:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    For the _nginx_ container you can `grep` for various [error](https://nginx.org/en/docs/ngx_core_module.html#error_log) logs. For example, to search for all logs logged at the `emerg` level:
```

    ```shell
    kubectl -n nginx-gateway logs <ngf-pod-name> -c nginx | grep emerg
    ```

    For example, if a variable is too long, NGINX may display such an error message:

    ```text
    kubectl logs -n nginx-gateway ngf-nginx-gateway-fabric-bb8598998-jwk2m -c nginx | grep emerg
    2024/06/13 20:04:17 [emerg] 27#27: too long parameter, probably missing terminating """ character in /etc/nginx/conf.d/http.conf:78
    ```

1. Access Logs

    NGINX access logs record all requests processed by the NGINX server. These logs provide detailed information about each request, which can be useful for troubleshooting and analyzing web traffic.
    Access logs can be viewed with the above method of using `kubectl logs`, or by viewing the access log file directly. To do that, get shell access to your NGINX container using these [steps](#get-shell-access-to-nginx-container). The access logs are located in the file `/var/log/nginx/access.log` in the NGINX container.

1. Modify Log Levels

>     To modify log levels for control plane in NGINX Gateway Fabric, edit the `NginxGateway` configuration. This can be done either before or after deploying NGINX Gateway Fabric. Refer to this [guide](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-gateway-fabric/how-to/configuration/control-plane-configuration) to do so.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    To modify log levels for the control plane in NGINX Gateway Fabric, edit the `NginxGateway` configuration. This can be done either before or after deploying NGINX Gateway Fabric. Refer to this [guide](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-gateway-fabric/how-to/configuration/control-plane-configuration) to do so.
```

    To check error logs, modify the log level to `error` to view error logs. Similarly, change the log level to `debug` and `grep` for the word `debug` to view debug logs.

> #### Understanding the generated NGINX config

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#### Understanding the generated NGINX configuration
```

In this section, we will see how the configuration gets updated as we configure different Services, Deployments and HTTPRoutes with NGINX Gateway Fabric. In the configuration file, you'll often find several server blocks, each assigned to specific ports and server names. NGINX selects the appropriate server for a request and evaluates the URI against the location directives within that block.
When only a Gateway resource is defined, but no Services or HTTPRoutes are configured, NGINX generates a basic configuration. This includes a default server listening on the ports specified in the Gateway listeners, handling all incoming requests. Additionally, there are blocks to manage errors with status codes 500 or 502.

This is a default `server` block listening on port 80:

```text
server {
    listen 80 default_server;

    default_type text/html;
    return 404;
}
```

> Once a HTTPRoute with path matches and rules are defined, the nginx.conf is updated accordingly to determine which location block will manage incoming requests. To demonstrate how `nginx.conf` is changed, let's create some resources:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Once a HTTPRoute with path matches and rules are defined, nginx.conf is updated accordingly to determine which location block will manage incoming requests. To demonstrate how `nginx.conf` is changed, create some resources:
```

1. A Gateway with single listener with the hostname `*.example.com` on port 80.
2. A simple `coffee` application.
3. An HTTPRoute that exposes the `coffee` application outside the cluster using the listener created in step 1. The path and rule matches create different location blocks in `nginx.conf` to route requests as needed.

> For example, this `coffee` route matches requests with path `/coffee` and type `prefix`. Lets see how the `nginx.conf` is modified.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For example, this `coffee` route matches requests with path `/coffee` and type `prefix`. Examine how the `nginx.conf` is modified:
```

    - path:
        type: PathPrefix
        value: /coffee
    backendRefs:
    - name: coffee
      port: 80
```

The modified `nginx.conf`:

```shell
server {
    listen 80 default_server;

    default_type text/html;
    return 404;
}

server {
    listen 80;

    server_name cafe.example.com;

    location /coffee/ {
        proxy_set_header Host "$gw_api_compliant_host";
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For "$proxy_add_x_forwarded_for";
        proxy_set_header Upgrade "$http_upgrade";
        proxy_set_header Connection "$connection_upgrade";
        proxy_http_version 1.1;
        proxy_pass http://default_coffee_80$request_uri;
    }

    location = /coffee {
        proxy_set_header Host "$gw_api_compliant_host";
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For "$proxy_add_x_forwarded_for";
        proxy_set_header Upgrade "$http_upgrade";
        proxy_set_header Connection "$connection_upgrade";
        proxy_http_version 1.1;
        proxy_pass http://default_coffee_80$request_uri;
    }

    location / {
        return 404 "";
    }

}
upstream default_coffee_80 {
    random two least_conn;
    zone default_coffee_80 512k;

    server 10.244.0.13:8080;
}
```

> Some key things to note here:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Key information to note is:
```

1. A new `server` block is created with the hostname of the HTTPRoute. When a request is sent to this hostname, it will be handled by this `server` block.
2. Within the `server` block, three new `location` blocks are added for *coffee*, each with distinct prefix and exact paths. Requests directed to the *coffee* application with a path prefix `/coffee/hello` will be managed by the first location block, while those with an exact path `/coffee` will be handled by the second location block. Any other requests not recognized by the server block for this hostname will default to the third location block, returning a 404 Not Found status.
3. Each `location` block has headers and directives that configure the NGINX proxy to forward requests to the `/coffee` path correctly, preserving important client information and ensuring compatibility with the upstream server.
4. The `upstream` block in the given NGINX configuration defines a group of backend servers and configures how NGINX should load balance requests among them.

> Now let's check the behaviour when curl request is sent to the `coffee` application:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Review the behaviour when a curl request is sent to the `coffee` application:
```

Matches location /coffee/ block

```shell
curl --resolve cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT:$GW_IP http://cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT/coffee/hello
Handling connection for 8080
Server address: 10.244.0.13:8080
Server name: coffee-56b44d4c55-hwpkp
Date: 13/Jun/2024:22:51:52 +0000
URI: /coffee/hello
Request ID: 21fc2baad77337065e7cf2cd57e04383
```

Matches location = /coffee block

```shell
curl --resolve cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT:$GW_IP http://cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT/coffee
Handling connection for 8080
Server address: 10.244.0.13:8080
Server name: coffee-56b44d4c55-hwpkp
Date: 13/Jun/2024:22:51:40 +0000
URI: /coffee
Request ID: 4d8d719e95063303e290ad74ecd7339f
```

Matches location / block

```shell
curl --resolve cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT:$GW_IP http://cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT/
Handling connection for 8080
<html>
<head><title>404 Not Found</title></head>
<body>
<center><h1>404 Not Found</h1></center>
<hr><center>nginx/1.25.4</center>
</body>
```

{{< warning >}}
The configuration may change in future releases. This configuration is valid for version 1.3.
{{< /warning >}}

> #### Metrics for Troubleshooting

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#### Metrics for troubleshooting
```

> Metrics can be useful to identify performance bottlenecks and pinpoint areas of high resource consumption within NGINX Gateway Fabric. To set up metrics collection, refer to this [guide]({{< relref "prometheus.md" >}}). The metrics dashboard will help you understand problems with the way NGINX Gateway Fabric is set up or potential issues that could show up with time.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Metrics can be useful to identify performance bottlenecks and pinpoint areas of high resource consumption within NGINX Gateway Fabric. To set up metrics collection, refer to the [Prometheus Metrics guide]({{< relref "prometheus.md" >}}). The metrics dashboard will help you understand problems with the way NGINX Gateway Fabric is set up or potential issues that could show up with time.
```

For example, metrics `nginx_reloads_total` and `nginx_reload_errors_total` offer valuable insights into the system's stability and reliability. A high `nginx_reloads_total` value indicates frequent updates or configuration changes, while a high `nginx_reload_errors_total` value suggests issues with the configuration or other problems preventing successful reloads. Monitoring these metrics helps identify and resolve configuration errors, ensuring consistent service reliability.

In such situations, it's advisable to review the logs of both NGINX and NGINX Gateway containers for any potential error messages. Additionally, verify the configured resources to ensure they are in a valid state.

> #### Access the N+ Dashboard

Reviewer 5: Product name must always be spelled out in full.

```suggestion
#### Access the NGINX Plus Dashboard
```

> #### Access the N+ Dashboard

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#### Access the N+ dashboard
```

> If you have NGINX Gateway Fabric installed with NGINX Plus, you can access the N+ dashboard at `http://localhost:8080/dashboard.html`.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
If you have NGINX Gateway Fabric installed with NGINX Plus, you can access the NGINX Plus dashboard at `http://localhost:8080/dashboard.html`.
```

> Note that, the port number i.e `8080` matches the port number you have port-forwarded your NGINX Gateway Fabric Pod. For further details, see the [dashboard guide]({{< relref "dashboard.md" >}})

Reviewer 5: Style rule: do not use latin abbreviations (i.e., e.g., etc.).

```suggestion
Verify that the port number (for example, `8080`) matches the port number you have port-forwarded to your NGINX Gateway Fabric Pod. For further details, see the [dashboard guide]({{< relref "dashboard.md" >}})
```

> ### Common Errors

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Common errors
```

{{< bootstrap-table "table table-striped table-bordered" >}}
| Problem Area                 | Symptom                                | Troubleshooting Method                                                                                              | Common Cause                                                                                                                            |
|------------------------------|----------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | Startup                      | NGINX Gateway Fabric fails to start.   | Check logs for _nginx_ and _nginx-gateway_ container.                                                               | Readiness probe failed.                                                                                                                 |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Startup                      | NGINX Gateway Fabric fails to start.   | Check logs for _nginx_ and _nginx-gateway_ containers.                                                               | Readiness probe failed.                                                                                                                 |
```

    2024/06/13 20:04:17 [emerg] 27#27: too long parameter, probably missing terminating """ character in /etc/nginx/conf.d/http.conf:78
    ```

1. Access Logs

    NGINX access logs record all requests processed by the NGINX server. These logs provide detailed information about each request, which can be useful for troubleshooting and analyzing web traffic.
    Access logs can be viewed with the above method of using `kubectl logs`, or by viewing the access log file directly. To do that, get shell access to your NGINX container using these [steps](#get-shell-access-to-nginx-container). The access logs are located in the file `/var/log/nginx/access.log` in the NGINX container.

1. Modify Log Levels

    To modify log levels for control plane in NGINX Gateway Fabric, edit the `NginxGateway` configuration. This can be done either before or after deploying NGINX Gateway Fabric. Refer to this [guide](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-gateway-fabric/how-to/configuration/control-plane-configuration) to do so.
    To check error logs, modify the log level to `error` to view error logs. Similarly, change the log level to `debug` and `grep` for the word `debug` to view debug logs.

> 

Reviewer: nit: looks like there's some extra newlines here

5s          Warning   ResourceDeleted     nginxgateway/ngf-config                          NginxGateway configuration was deleted; using defaults
```

##### Get shell access to NGINX container

Getting shell access to containers allows developers and operators to view the environment of a running container, see its logs or diagnose any problems. To get shell access to the NGINX container, use `kubectl exec`:

```shell
kubectl exec -it -n nginx-gateway  <ngf-pod-name> -c nginx /bin/sh
```

##### Logs

Logs from the NGINX Gateway Fabric control plane and data plane can contain information that isn't available to status or events. These can include errors in processing or passing traffic.

> 1. To see logs for the:

Reviewer: This numbering looks off to me in the deploy preview:
<img width="1053" alt="Screenshot 2024-06-27 at 4 36 40 PM" src="https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/assets/50597707/6929d81b-4a63-48ff-8abb-198cc2cd8b1a">

Author: I have removed the usage of numbers to sub-headings. Will wait on hearing from Alan.

Author: seems fixed now, thanks @kate-osborn

- Control plane container

```shell
kubectl -n nginx-gateway  logs <ngf-pod-name> -c nginx-gateway
```

- Data plane container

```shell
kubectl -n nginx-gateway  logs <ngf-pod-name> -c nginx
```

> 1. To only see error logs for control plane and data plane containers:

Reviewer: Ya, I mentioned this in another comment. You can use all `1`s for lists, but I think the code block indentation is messing with the list. Maybe @ADubhlaoich can help

```

> For _nginx_ container you can `grep` for various [error](https://nginx.org/en/docs/ngx_core_module.html#error_log) log levels and they are all logged in brackets `[emerg]`:

Reviewer: The tag corresponds to the error's level. So if the error is classified as `emerg` it will have the `[emerg]` tag, but if it's classified as `warn`, it will have the `[warn]` tag.

```shell
kubectl -n nginx-gateway  logs <ngf-pod-name> -c nginx | grep emerg
```

For example, if a variable is too long, NGINX may display such an error message:

```text
kubectl logs -n nginx-gateway ngf-nginx-gateway-fabric-bb8598998-jwk2m -c nginx | grep emerg
2024/06/13 20:04:17 [emerg] 27#27: too long parameter, probably missing terminating """ character in /etc/nginx/conf.d/http.conf:78
```

1. NGINX access logs are files that record all requests processed by the NGINX server. These logs provide detailed information about each request, which can be useful for troubleshooting, and analyzing web traffic.

> To view the access logs, get shell access to your NGINX container using the [steps](#get-shell-access-to-nginx-container). The access logs are located in the file `/var/log/nginx/access.log` in the NGINX container.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Access logs can be viewed with the above method of using `kubectl logs`, or by viewing the access log file directly. To do that, get shell access to your NGINX container using these [steps](#get-shell-access-to-nginx-container). The access logs are located in the file `/var/log/nginx/access.log` in the NGINX container.
```

Another method to check access logs is by reviewing the container logs for _nginx_ using:

```shell
kubectl logs -n nginx-gateway <ngf-pod-name> -c nginx
```

You can see logs for a crashed or killed container by adding the `-p` flag to the above commands.

> ##### NGINX Gateway Fabric Pod is not running or ready

Reviewer: Is this a common issue or a general troubleshooting method. It's part of the general troubleshooting section but it's title makes me think it's a common issue.

Author: I have consolidated some more fields into common errors.

    Image:          nginx-gateway-fabric/nginx
    Image ID:       docker.io/library/import-2024-06-13@sha256:c9a02cb5665c6218373f8f65fc2c730f018d0ca652ae827cc913a7c6e9db6f45
    Ports:          80/TCP, 443/TCP
    Host Ports:     0/TCP, 0/TCP
    State:          Running
      Started:      Thu, 13 Jun 2024 11:47:46 -0600
    Ready:          True
    Restart Count:  0
    Environment:    <none>
Events:
  Type    Reason     Age   From               Message
  ----    ------     ----  ----               -------
  Normal  Scheduled  40s   default-scheduler  Successfully assigned nginx-gateway/ngf-nginx-gateway-fabric-66dd665756-zh7d7 to kind-control-plane
  Normal  Pulled     40s   kubelet            Container image "nginx-gateway-fabric" already present on machine
  Normal  Created    40s   kubelet            Created container nginx-gateway
  Normal  Started    39s   kubelet            Started container nginx-gateway
  Normal  Pulled     39s   kubelet            Container image "nginx-gateway-fabric/nginx" already present on machine
  Normal  Created    39s   kubelet            Created container nginx
  Normal  Started    39s   kubelet            Started container nginx
```

> ### Modify logging levels

Reviewer 2: This should be nested under the logging section above, and use a smaller header.

> To debug NGINX Gateway Fabric, enable verbose logging by editing the `NginxGateway` configuration. This can be done either before or after deploying NGINX Gateway Fabric. Refer to this [guide](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-gateway-fabric/how-to/configuration/control-plane-configuration) to do so.

Reviewer 2: I would be clear that this ONLY pertains to the control plane logs, not the nginx logs.

> ### NGINX fails to reload

Reviewer: Is this where the common issue section starts? Can we mark that we a header so it's separate from the General Troubleshooting section?

Author: The `Known Issues` start later but i think it would be better to move it there. This felt more of a troubleshooting section than `known issues`.

#### Description

NGINX reload errors can occur for various reasons, including syntax errors in configuration files, permission issues, and more. To determine if NGINX has failed to reload, check logs for your _nginx-gateway_ and _nginx_ containers.

> You will see the following error in the _nginx-gateway_  logs `failed to reload NGINX:` followed by the reason for the failure. Similarly, error logs in _nginx_ container start with `emerg`. For example, `2024/06/12 14:25:11 [emerg] 12345#0: open() "/var/run/nginx.pid" failed (13: Permission denied)` shows a critical error, such as a permission problem preventing NGINX from accessing necessary files.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You will see the following error in the _nginx-gateway_  logs: `failed to reload NGINX:`, followed by the reason for the failure. Similarly, error logs in _nginx_ container start with `emerg`. For example, `2024/06/12 14:25:11 [emerg] 12345#0: open() "/var/run/nginx.pid" failed (13: Permission denied)` shows a critical error, such as a permission problem preventing NGINX from accessing necessary files.
```

In this section, we will see how the configuration gets updated as we configure different Services, Deployments and HTTPRoutes with NGINX Gateway Fabric. In the configuration file, you'll often find several server blocks, each assigned to specific ports and server names. NGINX selects the appropriate server for a request and evaluates the URI against the location directives within that block.
When only a Gateway resource is defined, but no Services or HTTPRoutes are configured, NGINX generates a basic configuration. This includes a default server listening on the ports specified in the Gateway listeners, handling all incoming requests. Additionally, there are blocks to manage errors with status codes 500 or 502.

This is a default `server` block listening on port 80:

```text
server {
    listen 80 default_server;

    default_type text/html;
    return 404;
}
```

> Once HTTPRoute with path matches and rules are defined, the nginx.conf is updated accordingly to determine which location block will manage incoming requests. To demonstrate how `nginx.conf` is changed, let's create some resources:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once an HTTPRoute with path matches and rules are defined, the nginx.conf is updated accordingly to determine which location block will manage incoming requests. To demonstrate how `nginx.conf` is changed, let's create some resources:
```

4. The `upstream` block in the given NGINX configuration defines a group of backend servers and configures how NGINX should load balance requests among them.

Now let's check the behaviour when curl request is sent to the `coffee` application:

Matches location /coffee/ block

```shell
curl --resolve cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT:$GW_IP http://cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT/coffee/hello
Handling connection for 8080
Server address: 10.244.0.13:8080
Server name: coffee-56b44d4c55-hwpkp
Date: 13/Jun/2024:22:51:52 +0000
URI: /coffee/hello
Request ID: 21fc2baad77337065e7cf2cd57e04383
```

Matches location = /coffee block

```shell
curl --resolve cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT:$GW_IP http://cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT/coffee
Handling connection for 8080
Server address: 10.244.0.13:8080
Server name: coffee-56b44d4c55-hwpkp
Date: 13/Jun/2024:22:51:40 +0000
URI: /coffee
Request ID: 4d8d719e95063303e290ad74ecd7339f
```

Matches location / block

```shell
curl --resolve cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT:$GW_IP http://cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT/
Handling connection for 8080
<html>
<head><title>404 Not Found</title></head>
<body>
<center><h1>404 Not Found</h1></center>
<hr><center>nginx/1.25.4</center>
</body>
```

> **Warning** The configuration may change in future releases.

Reviewer: I think we want to use a hugo callout: https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/tree/main/site#using-hugo-shortcodes

For example, metrics `nginx_reloads_total` and `nginx_reload_errors_total` offer valuable insights into the system's stability and reliability. A high `nginx_reloads_total` value indicates frequent updates or configuration changes, while a high `nginx_reload_errors_total` value suggests issues with the configuration or other problems preventing successful reloads. Monitoring these metrics helps identify and resolve configuration errors, ensuring consistent service reliability.

In such situations, it's advisable to review the logs of both NGINX and NGINX Gateway containers for any potential error messages. Additionally, verify the configured resources to ensure they are in a valid state.

#### Access the N+ Dashboard

If you have NGINX Gateway Fabric installed with NGINX Plus, you can access the N+ dashboard at `http://localhost:8080/dashboard.html`.

> Note that, the port number i.e `8080` matches the port number you have port-forwarded your NGINX Gateway Fabric Pod. For further [details]({{< relref "dashboard.md" >}})

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that the port number i.e `8080` matches the port number you have port-forwarded for your NGINX Gateway Fabric Pod. For further details, see the [dashboard guide]({{< relref "dashboard.md" >}}).
```

> ### Common Errors

Reviewer 2: We have a `Common Issues` section and `Common Errors` section in this doc. We should either change the name or collapse them.

> Please note that, the port number i.e `8080` needs to be the set to the port number you have port-forward your NGINX Gateway Fabric Pod. For further [details]({{< relref "dashboard.md" >}})

Reviewer 6: Maybe:

Please ensure that the port number, i.e., `8080`, matches the port number assigned to your port-forwarded NGINX Gateway Fabric Pod.

Reviewer 2: One note, I think we want to avoid using the word "please" in our docs

```

The request body exceeds the [client_max_body_size](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_core_module.html#client_max_body_size).
To **resolve** this, you can configure the `client_max_body_size` using the `ClientSettingsPolicy` API. Read the [Client Settings Policy]({{< relref "how-to/traffic-management/client-settings.md" >}}) documentation for more information.

> ### Further Reading

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Further reading
```

> You can check out the [Kubernetes Troubleshooting Guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/debug/debug-application/) for further assistance

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can view the [Kubernetes Troubleshooting Guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/debug/debug-application/) for more debugging guidance.
```

```

The request body exceeds the [client_max_body_size](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_core_module.html#client_max_body_size).
To **resolve** this, you can configure the `client_max_body_size` using the `ClientSettingsPolicy` API. Read the [Client Settings Policy]({{< relref "how-to/traffic-management/client-settings.md" >}}) documentation for more information.

### Further Reading

> You can checkout the [Kubernetes Troubleshooting Guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/debug/debug-application/) for further assistance

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can check out the [Kubernetes Troubleshooting Guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/debug/debug-application/) for further assistance
```
